README.md, before:

# Figma MCP Write Server

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides **write access** to Figma through the Plugin API, enabling AI agents to create, modify, and manage Figma designs programmatically.

## 🚀 Overview

Because the Figma REST API is mostly read-only, this project uses the Plugin API to enable full write operations. This allows AI agents to:

- ✅ **Create** design elements (rectangles, ellipses, text, frames)
- ✅ **Modify** existing nodes (properties, position, styling)
- ✅ **Delete** and duplicate design elements
- ✅ **Manage** selections and page content
- ✅ **Export** designs programmatically

## 🏗️ Architecture

Direct communication design eliminates complexity and improves reliability.

### Components

#### 1. MCP Server (`src/`)
- **MCP Server** (`mcp-server.ts`) - Built-in WebSocket server with direct plugin communication
- **Entry Point** (`index.ts`) - CLI interface with configuration options
- **Type Definitions** (`types.ts`) - Shared types and Zod schemas

#### 2. Figma Plugin (`figma-plugin/`)
- **Plugin** (`code.js`) - WebSocket client that connects to MCP server
- **UI** (`ui.html`) - Real-time status monitoring and connection feedback
- **Plugin Manifest** (`manifest.json`) - Standard Figma plugin configuration

## 🔄 How It Works

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[AI Agent/Claude] --> B[MCP Client]
    B --> C[MCP Server]
    C --> D[Figma Plugin]
    D --> E[Figma Design]
```

**Architecture Benefits:**
- Single process design - MCP server includes WebSocket server
- Direct WebSocket connection with auto-reconnection
- Robust error handling and status reporting
- No complex bridges or multiple processes
- Standardized port 8765 for all communication

1. **AI Agent** calls MCP tools (e.g., `create_rectangle`)
2. **MCP Server** validates parameters and connects to plugin
3. **Figma Plugin** receives message and executes operation using Plugin API
4. **Results** are sent back to the MCP server and then to the AI agent

## 📋 Available MCP Tools

| Tool | Description | Parameters |
|------|-------------|------------|
| `create_rectangle` | Create rectangle shapes | x, y, width, height, fillColor, strokeColor |
| `create_ellipse` | Create ellipse/circle shapes | x, y, width, height, fillColor, strokeColor |
| `create_text` | Create text elements | x, y, content, fontSize, fontFamily, textColor |
| `create_frame` | Create frame containers | x, y, width, height, backgroundColor |
| `update_node` | Update node properties | nodeId, properties |
| `move_node` | Move nodes to new positions | nodeId, x, y |
| `delete_node` | Delete nodes | nodeId |
| `duplicate_node` | Duplicate nodes | nodeId, offsetX, offsetY |
| `get_selection` | Get currently selected nodes | - |
| `set_selection` | Set node selection | nodeIds |
| `get_page_nodes` | List all nodes on current page | - |
| `export_node` | Export nodes as images | nodeId, format, scale |
| `get_plugin_status` | Check plugin connection | - |

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+
- Figma desktop app or browser access
- MCP-compatible client (Claude Desktop, Cursor, etc.)

### 1. Install Dependencies
```bash
cd figma-mcp-write-server
npm install
```

### 2. Build the Project
```bash
npm run build
```

### 3. Start the Server

**Production:**
```bash
# Single command starts everything
npm start
```

**Development with Watch Mode:**
```bash
# Auto-restart on code changes
npm run dev
```

### 4. Install Figma Plugin
1. Open Figma
2. Go to **Plugins** → **Development** → **Import plugin from manifest**
3. Select `figma-plugin/manifest.json`
4. Run the plugin to establish connection

### 5. Configure MCP Client

For **Claude Desktop**, add to `~/.claude/claude_desktop_config.json`:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "figma-write": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["/path/to/figma-mcp-write-server/dist/index.js"]
    }
  }
}
```

For **Cursor**, add to MCP configuration:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "figma-write": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["/path/to/figma-mcp-write-server/dist/index.js"]
    }
  }
}
```

## 🎯 Usage Examples

### Create a Simple Layout
```
Create a header frame at the top of the page, then add a title and subtitle inside it.
```

The AI agent will:
1. Use `create_frame` to create the header container
2. Use `create_text` twice for title and subtitle
3. Position elements appropriately

### Design System Operations
```
Create 5 button variants with different colors and update their corner radius to 8px.
```

The AI agent will:
1. Use `create_rectangle` multiple times for button bases
2. Use `create_text` for button labels
3. Use `update_node` to set corner radius and colors

### Batch Operations
```
Select all text elements and change their font size to 16px.
```

The AI agent will:
1. Use `get_page_nodes` to find all text nodes
2. Use `set_selection` to select them
3. Use `update_node` to modify font size

## 🔧 Configuration

### Command Line Options
- `--port <number>` - WebSocket server port (default: 8765)
- `--help, -h` - Show help message

### Environment Variables
- `FIGMA_MCP_PORT` - WebSocket server port (default: 8765)

## 🚦 Connection Status

The system provides real-time connection monitoring:

- **MCP Server**: Logs all client connections and tool calls
- **Figma Plugin UI**: Shows WebSocket connection status
- **Status Tool**: Use `get_plugin_status` to check connectivity

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Plugin Won't Connect
1. Check WebSocket port (default: 8765)
2. Verify MCP server is running
3. Verify Figma plugin is running
4. Check plugin console for connection logs
5. Plugin automatically reconnects on connection loss

### Write Operations Fail
1. Ensure plugin is connected (`get_plugin_status`)
2. Check node IDs are valid
3. Verify Figma file is not in Dev Mode
4. Check plugin permissions

### Performance Issues
1. Reduce heartbeat interval
2. Limit concurrent operations
3. Use batch operations when possible
4. Monitor WebSocket message size

## 🆚 Comparison with REST API MCP Servers

| Feature | REST API MCP | Plugin API MCP (This Project) |
|---------|--------------|-------------------------------|
| **Read Operations** | ✅ Full access | ✅ Full access |
| **Write Operations** | ❌ Not supported | ✅ Full support |
| **Real-time Updates** | ❌ Polling only | ✅ Live connection |
| **Authentication** | API Token | Plugin permissions |
| **Setup Complexity** | Simple | Moderate (requires plugin) |
| **Rate Limits** | Yes (REST API limits) | No (direct plugin access) |
| **Offline Usage** | ✅ Works offline | ❌ Requires active Figma session |

## 🛡️ Security Considerations

- WebSocket connections are local-only by default
- Plugin runs in Figma's sandbox environment
- No sensitive data stored in plugin code
- Message validation using Zod schemas
- Connection authentication via plugin ID

## 🚧 Limitations

- Requires active Figma session (desktop/browser)
- Plugin must be manually installed and run
- WebSocket connection can be unstable on poor networks
- Some advanced Figma features may not be supported
- Limited to single file operations (current page)

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Development Guide](DEVELOPMENT.md)** - Setup, architecture, and contribution guidelines
- **[Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)** - Version history and updates

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see the [Development Guide](DEVELOPMENT.md) for guidelines.

---

**Note**: This project provides write access to Figma designs through MCP by using Figma's Plugin API, which enables creation and modification operations not available through the REST API. The server includes 13 MCP tools and runs a WebSocket server on port 8765 for plugin communication.

Commit message:

refactor: unify node creation under single create_node tool
BREAKING CHANGE: Remove individual node creation tools in favor of unified API.
This is a major refactoring that simplifies the API before initial release.

Changes:
- Add unified create_node tool that handles all node types
- Remove legacy tools (create_rectangle, create_ellipse, create_text, create_frame)
- Reset version to 0.9.3 to reflect pre-release status
- Add comprehensive validation for node creation
- Update all documentation and examples to use unified tool

The unified tool supports:
- Rectangle nodes
- Ellipse nodes
- Text nodes
- Frame nodes

Each node type has its own validation rules and default values, making
the API both flexible and type-safe. This change reduces the total
number of tools from 14 to 10, simplifying the codebase while maintaining
full functionality.

This commit cleans up the API before initial release, removing unused
backward compatibility to present a cleaner interface for users.

README.md, after:

# Figma MCP Write Server

A Model Context Protocol (MCP) server that provides **write access** to Figma through the Plugin API, enabling AI agents to create, modify, and manage Figma designs programmatically.

## 🚀 Overview

Because the Figma REST API is mostly read-only, this project uses the Plugin API to enable full write operations. This allows AI agents to:

- ✅ **Create** design elements (rectangles, ellipses, text, frames)
- ✅ **Modify** existing nodes (properties, position, styling)
- ✅ **Delete** and duplicate design elements
- ✅ **Manage** selections and page content
- ✅ **Export** designs programmatically

## 🏗️ Architecture

Direct communication design eliminates complexity and improves reliability.

### Components

#### 1. MCP Server (`src/`)
- **MCP Server** (`mcp-server.ts`) - Built-in WebSocket server with direct plugin communication
- **Entry Point** (`index.ts`) - CLI interface with configuration options
- **Type Definitions** (`types.ts`) - Shared types and Zod schemas

#### 2. Figma Plugin (`figma-plugin/`)
- **Plugin** (`code.js`) - WebSocket client that connects to MCP server
- **UI** (`ui.html`) - Real-time status monitoring and connection feedback
- **Plugin Manifest** (`manifest.json`) - Standard Figma plugin configuration

## 🔄 How It Works

```mermaid
graph LR
    A[AI Agent/Claude] --> B[MCP Client]
    B --> C[MCP Server]
    C --> D[Figma Plugin]
    D --> E[Figma Design]
```

**Architecture Benefits:**
- Single process design - MCP server includes WebSocket server
- Direct WebSocket connection with auto-reconnection
- Robust error handling and status reporting
- No complex bridges or multiple processes
- Standardized port 8765 for all communication

1. **AI Agent** calls MCP tools (e.g., `create_node`)
2. **MCP Server** validates parameters and connects to plugin
3. **Figma Plugin** receives message and executes operation using Plugin API
4. **Results** are sent back to the MCP server and then to the AI agent

## 📋 Available MCP Tools

| Tool | Description | Parameters |
|------|-------------|------------|
| `create_node` | Create nodes (rectangle, ellipse, text, frame) | nodeType, x, y, width, height, content, fillColor, etc. |
| `update_node` | Update node properties | nodeId, properties |
| `move_node` | Move nodes to new positions | nodeId, x, y |
| `delete_node` | Delete nodes | nodeId |
| `duplicate_node` | Duplicate nodes | nodeId, offsetX, offsetY |
| `get_selection` | Get currently selected nodes | - |
| `set_selection` | Set node selection | nodeIds |
| `get_page_nodes` | List all nodes on current page | - |
| `export_node` | Export nodes as images | nodeId, format, scale |
| `get_plugin_status` | Check plugin connection | - |

## 🛠️ Installation & Setup

### Prerequisites
- Node.js 18+
- Figma desktop app or browser access
- MCP-compatible client (Claude Desktop, Cursor, etc.)

### 1. Install Dependencies
```bash
cd figma-mcp-write-server
npm install
```

### 2. Build the Project
```bash
npm run build
```

### 3. Start the Server

**Production:**
```bash
# Single command starts everything
npm start
```

**Development with Watch Mode:**
```bash
# Auto-restart on code changes
npm run dev
```

### 4. Install Figma Plugin
1. Open Figma
2. Go to **Plugins** → **Development** → **Import plugin from manifest**
3. Select `figma-plugin/manifest.json`
4. Run the plugin to establish connection

### 5. Configure MCP Client

For **Claude Desktop**, add to `~/.claude/claude_desktop_config.json`:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "figma-write": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["/path/to/figma-mcp-write-server/dist/index.js"]
    }
  }
}
```

For **Cursor**, add to MCP configuration:
```json
{
  "mcpServers": {
    "figma-write": {
      "command": "node",
      "args": ["/path/to/figma-mcp-write-server/dist/index.js"]
    }
  }
}
```

## 🎯 Usage Examples

### Create a Simple Layout
```
Create a header frame at the top of the page, then add a title and subtitle inside it.
```

The AI agent will:
1. Use `create_node` with `nodeType: "frame"` to create the header container
2. Use `create_node` with `nodeType: "text"` twice for title and subtitle
3. Position elements appropriately

### Design System Operations
```
Create 5 button variants with different colors and update their corner radius to 8px.
```

The AI agent will:
1. Use `create_node` with `nodeType: "rectangle"` multiple times for button bases
2. Use `create_node` with `nodeType: "text"` for button labels
3. Use `update_node` to set corner radius and colors

### Batch Operations
```
Select all text elements and change their font size to 16px.
```

The AI agent will:
1. Use `get_page_nodes` to find all text nodes
2. Use `set_selection` to select them
3. Use `update_node` to modify font size

## 🔧 Configuration

### Command Line Options
- `--port <number>` - WebSocket server port (default: 8765)
- `--help, -h` - Show help message

### Environment Variables
- `FIGMA_MCP_PORT` - WebSocket server port (default: 8765)

## 🚦 Connection Status

The system provides real-time connection monitoring:

- **MCP Server**: Logs all client connections and tool calls
- **Figma Plugin UI**: Shows WebSocket connection status
- **Status Tool**: Use `get_plugin_status` to check connectivity

## 🔍 Troubleshooting

### Plugin Won't Connect
1. Check WebSocket port (default: 8765)
2. Verify MCP server is running
3. Verify Figma plugin is running
4. Check plugin console for connection logs
5. Plugin automatically reconnects on connection loss

### Write Operations Fail
1. Ensure plugin is connected (`get_plugin_status`)
2. Check node IDs are valid
3. Verify Figma file is not in Dev Mode
4. Check plugin permissions

### Performance Issues
1. Reduce heartbeat interval
2. Limit concurrent operations
3. Use batch operations when possible
4. Monitor WebSocket message size

## 🆚 Comparison with REST API MCP Servers

| Feature | REST API MCP | Plugin API MCP (This Project) |
|---------|--------------|-------------------------------|
| **Read Operations** | ✅ Full access | ✅ Full access |
| **Write Operations** | ❌ Not supported | ✅ Full support |
| **Real-time Updates** | ❌ Polling only | ✅ Live connection |
| **Authentication** | API Token | Plugin permissions |
| **Setup Complexity** | Simple | Moderate (requires plugin) |
| **Rate Limits** | Yes (REST API limits) | No (direct plugin access) |
| **Offline Usage** | ✅ Works offline | ❌ Requires active Figma session |

## 🛡️ Security Considerations

- WebSocket connections are local-only by default
- Plugin runs in Figma's sandbox environment
- No sensitive data stored in plugin code
- Message validation using Zod schemas
- Connection authentication via plugin ID

## 🚧 Limitations

- Requires active Figma session (desktop/browser)
- Plugin must be manually installed and run
- WebSocket connection can be unstable on poor networks
- Some advanced Figma features may not be supported
- Limited to single file operations (current page)

## 📚 Documentation

- **[Development Guide](DEVELOPMENT.md)** - Setup, architecture, and contribution guidelines
- **[Changelog](CHANGELOG.md)** - Version history and updates

## 📄 License

This project is licensed under the MIT License - see the [LICENSE](LICENSE) file for details.

## 🤝 Contributing

Contributions are welcome! Please see the [Development Guide](DEVELOPMENT.md) for guidelines.

---

**Note**: This project provides write access to Figma designs through MCP by using Figma's Plugin API, which enables creation and modification operations not available through the REST API. The server includes 10 MCP tools and runs a WebSocket server on port 8765 for plugin communication.
