examples/design-system-example.md, before:

# Design System Creation Examples

## 🎨 Creating a Complete Design System

### Step 1: Define Color Palette
```
Create a color palette with primary, secondary, and neutral colors as rectangles arranged in a grid.
```

**AI Agent Commands:**
- `create_rectangle` with different fill colors for each color swatch
- `create_text` to label each color with hex values
- `create_frame` to group related colors together

### Step 2: Typography Scale
```
Create a typography scale showing different text sizes and weights.
```

**Example Typography Hierarchy:**
- Heading 1: 32px, Inter Bold
- Heading 2: 24px, Inter SemiBold  
- Heading 3: 20px, Inter Medium
- Body: 16px, Inter Regular
- Caption: 12px, Inter Regular

### Step 3: Component Library
```
Create basic UI components: buttons, input fields, cards, and navigation elements.
```

**Button Variants:**
- Primary: Blue background, white text
- Secondary: White background, blue text, blue border
- Tertiary: Transparent background, blue text

### Step 4: Spacing System
```
Create a spacing scale with consistent margin and padding values.
```

**Spacing Scale:**
- XS: 4px
- SM: 8px
- MD: 16px
- LG: 24px
- XL: 32px
- XXL: 48px

## 🔧 Implementation Example

### Creating Button Components

```javascript
// Primary Button
await mcpClient.callTool('create_rectangle', {
  name: 'Primary Button',
  width: 120,
  height: 40,
  fillColor: '#0066FF',
  x: 50,
  y: 50
});

await mcpClient.callTool('create_text', {
  name: 'Button Text',
  content: 'Primary',
  fontSize: 14,
  fontFamily: 'Inter',
  textColor: '#FFFFFF',
  x: 67,
  y: 63
});

// Secondary Button
await mcpClient.callTool('create_rectangle', {
  name: 'Secondary Button',
  width: 120,
  height: 40,
  fillColor: '#FFFFFF',
  strokeColor: '#0066FF',
  strokeWidth: 1,
  x: 200,
  y: 50
});

await mcpClient.callTool('create_text', {
  name: 'Button Text',
  content: 'Secondary',
  fontSize: 14,
  fontFamily: 'Inter',
  textColor: '#0066FF',
  x: 217,
  y: 63
});
```

### Creating Color Swatches

```javascript
const colors = [
  { name: 'Primary', hex: '#0066FF', x: 50 },
  { name: 'Secondary', hex: '#00CC88', x: 200 },
  { name: 'Neutral Dark', hex: '#333333', x: 350 },
  { name: 'Neutral Light', hex: '#F5F5F5', x: 500 }
];

for (const color of colors) {
  // Create color swatch
  await mcpClient.callTool('create_rectangle', {
    name: `${color.name} Swatch`,
    width: 100,
    height: 100,
    fillColor: color.hex,
    x: color.x,
    y: 150
  });
  
  // Add color label
  await mcpClient.callTool('create_text', {
    name: `${color.name} Label`,
    content: `${color.name}\n${color.hex}`,
    fontSize: 12,
    fontFamily: 'Inter',
    textColor: '#333333',
    x: color.x,
    y: 270
  });
}
```

### Creating Typography Scale

```javascript
const typographyScale = [
  { name: 'H1', size: 32, weight: 'Bold', y: 350 },
  { name: 'H2', size: 24, weight: 'SemiBold', y: 400 },
  { name: 'H3', size: 20, weight: 'Medium', y: 440 },
  { name: 'Body', size: 16, weight: 'Regular', y: 480 },
  { name: 'Caption', size: 12, weight: 'Regular', y: 510 }
];

for (const text of typographyScale) {
  await mcpClient.callTool('create_text', {
    name: `Typography ${text.name}`,
    content: `${text.name} - ${text.size}px ${text.weight}`,
    fontSize: text.size,
    fontFamily: 'Inter',
    textColor: '#333333',
    x: 50,
    y: text.y
  });
}
```

## 📋 Design System Checklist

### Colors
- [ ] Primary color and variants
- [ ] Secondary color and variants  
- [ ] Neutral grays (5-7 shades)
- [ ] Semantic colors (success, warning, error)
- [ ] Background colors

### Typography
- [ ] Font family selection
- [ ] Heading hierarchy (H1-H6)
- [ ] Body text styles
- [ ] Caption and small text
- [ ] Line height standards

### Components
- [ ] Buttons (primary, secondary, tertiary)
- [ ] Form inputs (text, select, checkbox, radio)
- [ ] Cards and containers
- [ ] Navigation elements
- [ ] Icons and illustrations

### Spacing
- [ ] Margin scale
- [ ] Padding scale
- [ ] Grid system
- [ ] Component spacing rules

### Layout
- [ ] Grid system
- [ ] Breakpoints
- [ ] Container widths
- [ ] Column gutters

## 🎯 Pro Tips

1. **Start with constraints** - Define your color palette and typography scale first
2. **Use consistent naming** - Establish naming conventions early
3. **Create reusable components** - Build once, use everywhere
4. **Document decisions** - Add notes explaining design choices
5. **Test at scale** - Create example pages using your system
6. **Iterate based on usage** - Refine components as you use them

## 🔄 Workflow Integration

### With Design Tokens
```javascript
const designTokens = {
  colors: {
    primary: '#0066FF',
    secondary: '#00CC88',
    neutral: {
      900: '#1A1A1A',
      800: '#333333',
      700: '#4D4D4D',
      // ...
    }
  },
  typography: {
    fontFamily: 'Inter',
    fontSize: {
      xs: 12,
      sm: 14,
      base: 16,
      lg: 18,
      xl: 20,
      '2xl': 24,
      '3xl': 32
    }
  },
  spacing: {
    xs: 4,
    sm: 8,
    md: 16,
    lg: 24,
    xl: 32
  }
};

// Use tokens in component creation
await mcpClient.callTool('create_rectangle', {
  fillColor: designTokens.colors.primary,
  width: designTokens.spacing.xl * 4,
  height: designTokens.spacing.lg
});
```

This systematic approach ensures consistency across your entire design system and makes it easy to maintain and scale.

Commit message:

refactor: unify node creation under single create_node tool
BREAKING CHANGE: Remove individual node creation tools in favor of unified API.
This is a major refactoring that simplifies the API before initial release.

Changes:
- Add unified create_node tool that handles all node types
- Remove legacy tools (create_rectangle, create_ellipse, create_text, create_frame)
- Reset version to 0.9.3 to reflect pre-release status
- Add comprehensive validation for node creation
- Update all documentation and examples to use unified tool

The unified tool supports:
- Rectangle nodes
- Ellipse nodes
- Text nodes
- Frame nodes

Each node type has its own validation rules and default values, making
the API both flexible and type-safe. This change reduces the total
number of tools from 14 to 10, simplifying the codebase while maintaining
full functionality.

This commit cleans up the API before initial release, removing unused
backward compatibility to present a cleaner interface for users.

examples/design-system-example.md, after:

# Design System Creation Examples

## 🎨 Creating a Complete Design System

### Step 1: Define Color Palette
```
Create a color palette with primary, secondary, and neutral colors as rectangles arranged in a grid.
```

**AI Agent Commands:**
- `create_node` with `nodeType: "rectangle"` and different fill colors for each color swatch
- `create_node` with `nodeType: "text"` to label each color with hex values
- `create_node` with `nodeType: "frame"` to group related colors together

### Step 2: Typography Scale
```
Create a typography scale showing different text sizes and weights.
```

**Example Typography Hierarchy:**
- Heading 1: 32px, Inter Bold
- Heading 2: 24px, Inter SemiBold  
- Heading 3: 20px, Inter Medium
- Body: 16px, Inter Regular
- Caption: 12px, Inter Regular

### Step 3: Component Library
```
Create basic UI components: buttons, input fields, cards, and navigation elements.
```

**Button Variants:**
- Primary: Blue background, white text
- Secondary: White background, blue text, blue border
- Tertiary: Transparent background, blue text

### Step 4: Spacing System
```
Create a spacing scale with consistent margin and padding values.
```

**Spacing Scale:**
- XS: 4px
- SM: 8px
- MD: 16px
- LG: 24px
- XL: 32px
- XXL: 48px

## 🔧 Implementation Example

### Creating Button Components

```javascript
// Primary Button
await mcpClient.callTool('create_rectangle', {
  name: 'Primary Button',
  width: 120,
  height: 40,
  fillColor: '#0066FF',
  x: 50,
  y: 50
});

await mcpClient.callTool('create_text', {
  name: 'Button Text',
  content: 'Primary',
  fontSize: 14,
  fontFamily: 'Inter',
  textColor: '#FFFFFF',
  x: 67,
  y: 63
});

// Secondary Button
await mcpClient.callTool('create_rectangle', {
  name: 'Secondary Button',
  width: 120,
  height: 40,
  fillColor: '#FFFFFF',
  strokeColor: '#0066FF',
  strokeWidth: 1,
  x: 200,
  y: 50
});

await mcpClient.callTool('create_text', {
  name: 'Button Text',
  content: 'Secondary',
  fontSize: 14,
  fontFamily: 'Inter',
  textColor: '#0066FF',
  x: 217,
  y: 63
});
```

### Creating Color Swatches

```javascript
const colors = [
  { name: 'Primary', hex: '#0066FF', x: 50 },
  { name: 'Secondary', hex: '#00CC88', x: 200 },
  { name: 'Neutral Dark', hex: '#333333', x: 350 },
  { name: 'Neutral Light', hex: '#F5F5F5', x: 500 }
];

for (const color of colors) {
  // Create color swatch
  await mcpClient.callTool('create_rectangle', {
    name: `${color.name} Swatch`,
    width: 100,
    height: 100,
    fillColor: color.hex,
    x: color.x,
    y: 150
  });
  
  // Add color label
  await mcpClient.callTool('create_text', {
    name: `${color.name} Label`,
    content: `${color.name}\n${color.hex}`,
    fontSize: 12,
    fontFamily: 'Inter',
    textColor: '#333333',
    x: color.x,
    y: 270
  });
}
```

### Creating Typography Scale

```javascript
const typographyScale = [
  { name: 'H1', size: 32, weight: 'Bold', y: 350 },
  { name: 'H2', size: 24, weight: 'SemiBold', y: 400 },
  { name: 'H3', size: 20, weight: 'Medium', y: 440 },
  { name: 'Body', size: 16, weight: 'Regular', y: 480 },
  { name: 'Caption', size: 12, weight: 'Regular', y: 510 }
];

for (const text of typographyScale) {
  await mcpClient.callTool('create_text', {
    name: `Typography ${text.name}`,
    content: `${text.name} - ${text.size}px ${text.weight}`,
    fontSize: text.size,
    fontFamily: 'Inter',
    textColor: '#333333',
    x: 50,
    y: text.y
  });
}
```

## 📋 Design System Checklist

### Colors
- [ ] Primary color and variants
- [ ] Secondary color and variants  
- [ ] Neutral grays (5-7 shades)
- [ ] Semantic colors (success, warning, error)
- [ ] Background colors

### Typography
- [ ] Font family selection
- [ ] Heading hierarchy (H1-H6)
- [ ] Body text styles
- [ ] Caption and small text
- [ ] Line height standards

### Components
- [ ] Buttons (primary, secondary, tertiary)
- [ ] Form inputs (text, select, checkbox, radio)
- [ ] Cards and containers
- [ ] Navigation elements
- [ ] Icons and illustrations

### Spacing
- [ ] Margin scale
- [ ] Padding scale
- [ ] Grid system
- [ ] Component spacing rules

### Layout
- [ ] Grid system
- [ ] Breakpoints
- [ ] Container widths
- [ ] Column gutters

## 🎯 Pro Tips

1. **Start with constraints** - Define your color palette and typography scale first
2. **Use consistent naming** - Establish naming conventions early
3. **Create reusable components** - Build once, use everywhere
4. **Document decisions** - Add notes explaining design choices
5. **Test at scale** - Create example pages using your system
6. **Iterate based on usage** - Refine components as you use them

## 🔄 Workflow Integration

### With Design Tokens
```javascript
const designTokens = {
  colors: {
    primary: '#0066FF',
    secondary: '#00CC88',
    neutral: {
      900: '#1A1A1A',
      800: '#333333',
      700: '#4D4D4D',
      // ...
    }
  },
  typography: {
    fontFamily: 'Inter',
    fontSize: {
      xs: 12,
      sm: 14,
      base: 16,
      lg: 18,
      xl: 20,
      '2xl': 24,
      '3xl': 32
    }
  },
  spacing: {
    xs: 4,
    sm: 8,
    md: 16,
    lg: 24,
    xl: 32
  }
};

// Use tokens in component creation
await mcpClient.callTool('create_rectangle', {
  fillColor: designTokens.colors.primary,
  width: designTokens.spacing.xl * 4,
  height: designTokens.spacing.lg
});
```

This systematic approach ensures consistency across your entire design system and makes it easy to maintain and scale.
